# DOILookup
A short powershell script to automate verfication of DOIs in apa reference lists
This should run on any Windows machine or machine with a recent PS environment.  This tool only looks up DOI references so ignore the checkbox. Looking up public URLs is a couple of orders of magnitude more complicated when it comes to reducing the risk of an unintended or intentionally malicious link. Since looking up a DOI is just submitting an identifier to the database endpoint, I just remove any thing from the URL that isn't a DOI.
The first screen is where you can copy and then paste a list of references in APA format, with or without the heading. When you have pasted in the references, click the Validate button. On most systems you will see the PS window in the back and watch the progress. After a few seconds or so depending on your internet connection a new screen will show. All of the work is done from your local machine. The Validation Results screen has the reference from what you pasted in along with the authors from the reference called out on a separate line. The next two lines are the authors name and the title of the article from the DOI databse. If the url was not a DOI or the DOI was not found, those will blank and a notice in Red that the DOI is invalid. If the DOI is found then a green note will show saying the URL is valid.
The authors names are in a different format between APA and Biblotext so I didn't make any attempt to match them.
You should be able to download the PS1 file, or create a new one on your machine and copy and paste the code into it after you review it. To run this, depending on your setup, you can double click it, right click it and select run with Powershell, or in some cases you will need to open a powershell prompt, cd to the folder and run it from there. It uses modules that should be standard to a Windows machine and does not access any other parts of your computer.
